From the AP comes this story : President Bush on Tuesday nominated two
individuals to replace retiring jurists on federal courts in the Washington
area. Bush nominated Jennifer M. Anderson for a 15-year term as associate judge
of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia, replacing Steffen W. Graae.
*** Bush also nominated A. Noel Anketell Kramer for a 15-year term as associate
judge of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals, replacing John Montague
Steadman. 

The sheikh in wheel-chair has been attacked with a F-16-launched bomb. He could
be killed years ago and the israelians have all the reasons, since he founded
and he is the spiritual leader of Hamas, but they didn't. Today's incident
proves that Sharon has lost his patience and his hope in peace. Nervous people
make mistakes, so I suppose there will be a wave of succesfull arab attacks. A
la guerre c'est comme a la guerre! 

In the eastern city of Baqubah, guerrillas detonated a car bomb outside a police
station, killing several people. The US lost yet another helicopter to hostile
fire near Habbaniyah in the Sunni heartland, but this time the crew was safe. In
Fallujah, hundreds of demonstrators came out against US troops when they briefly
arrested a yound newlywed bride. (I hope that the US army got an enormous amount
of information from her relatives, because otherwise this move was a bad, bad
tradeoff). The US troops fired into the hostile crowd, killing 4. It seems clear
to me that the manhunt for high Baath officials in the Sunni heartland is being
done wrong, or at least in ways that are bad for US standing with local Iraqis.

Google has finally had an analyst day -- a chance to present the company's story
to the (miniscule number of) people who haven't heard it. Usually, these are
just a chance for the suckups to suck up, but this time people are actually
concerned about the company's plans. They work on Wall Street, after all, so
when they hear a company who's stated goals include "Don't be evil," they
imagine a company who's eventually history will be "Don't be profitable." It's
not quite as freewheeling an environment as you'd imagine: Sergey Brin has
actually created a mathematical 'proof' that the company's self-driven research
strategy, which gives employees one day a week to do research projects on their
own, is a good, respectable idea . Read the entire article; there's a punchline,
too. 

My opinion piece on the implications of Arafat's passing for al-Qaeda has
appeared at Newsday. Excerpt: "Arafat's secular nationalism was supple enough to
compromise with Israel and to imagine a two-state solution, even if the road of
negotiations remained rocky. The continued Israeli colonization of the occupied
Palestinian territories during the 1990s helped, along with terrorist attacks by
radical groups such as Hamas, to derail the peace process, which Sharon had
always opposed. Arafat's death creates a vacuum in Palestinian leadership that
will not soon be filled. Sharon's assassination of major Hamas leaders has also
weakened authority structures in that party. If the Israelis and the Palestinian
leadership cannot find a way to reinvigorate the peace process, cells of radical
young Palestinians may grow up that look to bin Laden for their cues. Even if
local Palestinian leaders remain strong enough to keep al-Qaida out, the
festering Israeli-Palestinian struggle remains among the best recruiting posters
for al-Qaida with young Muslim men. Resolving this conflict would be the most
effective weapon the United States could deploy in its war on terror." 
