What if Google Morphed Into GoogleOS? What if Google expanded on its
search-engine (and now e-mail) wares into a full-fledged operating system? [via
Microsoft Watch from Mary Jo Foley ] 

(And, by the way, is anybody else just a little nostalgic for the days when that
was a good thing?) This BuzzMachine post argues that Google's rush toward
ubiquity might backfire -- which we've all heard before, but it's particularly
well-put in this post. Google is a nice search engine. Does anybody use it for
anything else? They own blogger, of course. Is that a money maker? I'm staying
away from the stock. 

I doubt the very few who actually read my blog have not come across this yet,
but I figured I would put it out there anyways. John Donovan from Argghhh! has
put out a excellent slide show on what was actually found and fought for in
Fallujah. Click here To view it. He makes some good observations on a few of the
pic's. One of the pictures shows a flag that was found in Fallujah. On the next
two pictures he took screenshots of two beheading video's. Compare the flags to
the Fallujah one. You have to see these slides....they are amazing. This
Fallujah operation my turn out to be the most important operation done by the US
Military since the end of the war. 

Let me join the chorus of annoyance over Google's new toolbar , which, as noted
in the linked article, commits just about every sin an online marketer could
commit, and makes up a few new ones besides. I'm not fond of the
Google-hates-privacy argument (You don't need to use their site, you can opt-out
of sharing your information, you don't need to send stuff to anyone with a Gmail
account, and if -- wonder of wonders -- you're worried that you might send
something to someone who would forward an excerpt to someone who would then
store it on a Gmail account... you have far, far too much time on your hands).
However, this toolbar is really bad news. On the other hand, it looks pretty
cool. 

Iran says it is creating nuclear energy without wanting nuclear weapons. The
United States doesn't believe the Iranian Government. One can suspect the
Iranian Government. But there is no proof . I read an Article in Time magazine
accusing the Iranian Government of being willing to start a nuclear war and I
sympathise with the Article. They are certainly being nasty to the United
Nations Security Council in connection with the anti-proliferation treaty. 
