Al-Zaman : American forces killed Shaikh Abdullah al-Ani, the preacher at the
mosque in the town of Qaim, near the Syrian border. [This killing of a respected
cleric will be causing us trouble for years to come.] DPA: Iraqi authorities
announced that they had busted up 3 terrorist cells operating in Baghdad. Two of
them were being run by 2 officials of the Ministry of the Interior! The MoI in
Iraq is equivalent to the US FBI, so this would be like having J. Edgar Hoover
unwittingly employ at a high level members of the Weathermen bombers back in the
1960s. The third was being run by the head of an investment firm. You wonder if
he was manipulating the market with his bombing targets. The cells were
operating in the Ghazaliyah and al-Jihad districts of the capital. Although the
announcement was probably made to show progress in identifying and breaking up
terror cells, I don't find the news that the Baathists continue to penetrate the
Iraqi government very hopeful. It reminds me too much of the ARVN officers who
were secretly working for the other side in Vietnam. Al-Zaman : Guerrillas
killed a member of the Kurdistan Democratic Party after kidnapping him in Mosul.
The police commander of Ninevah Province announced that bombings had declined 80
percent in Mosul, whereas there had been a big jump in the number of
kidnappings. On Wednesday guerrillas had kidnapped a cosmetic surgeon and his
wife while they were on their way home. In Suwayrah, Kut Province, two car bombs
were discovered before they could be detonated. (Kut is in southeastern Iraq and
has an overwhelmingly Shiite population, who are on the lookout for Baathist
saboteurs and willingly turn them in. This willingness is the main difference in
the number of bombings in the south as opposed to the center-north of the
country.) In Baghdad Kadhim Talal Husain, assistant dean at the School of
Education at Mustansiriyah University, was assassinated with his driver in the
Salikh district. Guerrillas killed an engineer, Asi Ali, from Tikrit. They also
killed Shaikh Hamid 'Akkab, a clan elder of a branch of the Dulaim tribe in
Tikrit. His mother was also killed in the attack. Two other Dulaim leaders have
been killed in the past week and a half. Guerrillas near Hawijah launched an
attack that left 6 dead, including 4 Iraqi soldiers. One of them was from the
Jubur tribe and was deputy commander of the Hawijah garrison. Two hundred
members of the Batawi clan of the Dulaim demonstrated in Baghdad on Friday,
protesting the killing of their clan elder, Shaikh Kadhim Sarhid and 4 of his
sons, by gunmen wearing Iraqi army uniforms. (This is a largely Sunni Arab clan,
and some Sunni observers have accused Shiite elements in the government of being
behind the assassination; it is more likely the work of Sunni Arab guerrillas
punishing the Batawi leaders for cooperating with the Dec. 15 elections.)
Al-Zaman : The Iraqi High Electoral Commission on Friday denied a request of the
Debaathification Commission to exclude 51 individuals from running on party
lists in the Dec. 15 elections on grounds of having been sufficiently involved
in Baath activities to warrant their being excluded from civil office. The
Commission said it had no legal grounds for such an exclusion. This item is a
small one and easily missed. But in my view it is highly significant. The
Debaathification Commission had been pushed by Ahmad Chalabi and his Iraqi
National Congress very hard, and had pushed many Sunni Arabs into the arms of
the guerrillas. Chalabi has been increasingly marginalized within Iraq, however,
despite his ties of clientelage with Washington and Tehran. He is no longer in
the dominant Shiite list, the United Iraqi Alliance, and won't have many seats
in the new parliament. Some 2,000 junior officers of the old Baath army have
been recalled to duty in recent months, something Chalabi would have blocked if
he could have. Now the Electoral Commission is refusing to punish people for
mere past Baath Party membership. The situation in Iraq is only going to get
better this way. If someone committed a crime against humanity, prosecute the
person. If he or she did not, then they should have all the same rights as other
Iraqis. Al-Sharq al-Awsat reports that a key eyewitness in the trial of Saddam
Hussein for a 1982 massacre at Dujail has died. A team from the court managed to
take his deposition before he died. The trial begins again Nov.28. 

In Baghdad the fighting still continues in several areas, mostly in Sadr city
and Adhamiya. Baghdadis don't venture much out of their neighbourhoods any more,
you never know where you might get stuck. There has been talk that the night
curfew might be implemented again. My neighbourhood has been surrounded by
American troops for three days now, helicopters have been circling over our
heads non-stop. Fedayeen are now visible on the street and they have become
bolder than ever. Yesterday there were tens of them putting road blocks on our
street and setting up mortars, they only come out in the open when Americans
leave the area, then they start firing mortars indiscriminately and shooting
their AK-47's in the air. They are setting the road blocks at the exact same
positions they were during the war last year, which indicates they are the same
people. And there is nothing we can do about it really, people who are
suggesting that we go out and fight them are living in dream land. Even the IP
and ICDC have abandoned the neighbourhood, and those are trained and armed, so
don't expect scared civilians to do anything except to hide inside and pray a
helicopter or a tank doesn't bomb them, and also how are American soldiers going
to distinguish the brave and valiant civilians from the Fedayeen? Everyone is
apprehensive, there is some talk that April 9th and 10th are going to be bloody
days.  
